this is travel tuesdays every tuesday we
present you with another incredible
country today we're looking at 15 things
you didn't know about cape town welcome
to a lox calm the place where future
billionaires come to get informed hello
a lectures today revealing some
interesting lesser-known facts about one
of the oldest most diverse cities in
africa cape town cape town located on
the southwestern coast of africa has
been inhabited for thousands of years
the Khoikhoi
lived on the island long before the city
was established by european settlers the
area was first developed by the Dutch
East India Company and the first
permanent settlement was started in 1652
this makes it the oldest urban area in
South Africa it was the largest city in
South Africa for many years until a gold
rush attracted a greater population to
yo.hannes burg Cape Town has had a rich
history that includes a dark past of
conflict slavery and apartheid today
Cape Town is a thriving city that has a
strong economy beautiful beaches
first-class wines and a very diverse
society it was named the best place to
visit in the world by the new york times
back in 2014 and it's beautiful
landscape diverse culture and vibrant
city life and historical significance
attracts millions of visitors every year
if you are new here welcome be sure to
subscribe and follow us on instagram at
Alex this city is definitely worth a
deeper look so let's cut to the chase
and dive in to learn some more about
this fascinating city with the 15 things
you didn't know about Cape Town number
one the earliest known name for Cape
Town was Cape of
little is known about the early
inhabitants of the area the first
recorded history of the city came in
1488 when a portuguese explorer named
Bartolomeu Dias became the first
European to reach its shores he named
the area Cabo de tormenta
which translates to Cape of storms it
was later renamed Cape of Good Hope by
another Explorer from Portugal number 2
the British plan to make Cape Town a
convict colony
in 1605 sailors from the East India
Trading Company attempted to annex the
Cape for the first time to claim it for
Britain that attempt failed but in 1615
British diplomat Sir Thomas Rowe came up
with a plan to make Cape Town a convict
colony
he took a ship of deported convicts to
the Cape and attempted to drop them off
but many drowned and others were killed
by the Khoikhoi the rest of the convicts
were removed from the Cape and the plan
was abandoned number three the garden
that was first planted by settlers in
1652 is still cultivated today Cape Town
was the first European settlement in
South Africa and when the first settlers
began building a life there they created
a garden to help supply food to the
community that garden still exists today
in its original location right in the
middle of the city it's officially known
as the company's garden and today the
well maintained garden is a tourist
destination that is full of native
plants it also holds the oldest pear
tree in the country that was planted in
number four Cape Town was the first city
outside of Europe to be given a blue
flag beach status the foundation for
environmental education has established
the blue flag certification that can be
attributed to a beach or marina it's
based on strict standards for water
quality safety and environmental factors
the Blue Flag certification is a highly
sought-after status Spain has been named
as the top Blue Flag location since the
certification was established in 1987
Woodson Berg beach in Cape Town has the
distinction of being named as the first
Blue Flag beach outside of Europe number
five the richest person in Cape Town is
billionaire Johann Rupert Johann Rupert
is the chairman of the Swiss luxury
goods company that owns Cartier and Mont
Blanc he also has some very lucrative
investments that contribute to his six
point seven billion dollar net worth
Forbes named him as the two hundred and
twenty eighth richest person in the
world and he's the second richest person
in South Africa next to Nicky
Oppenheimer who made his money from the
De Beers diamond company number six it's
the first major city in the world
that's in danger of running out of water
in January 2018
Cape Town officials announced that in
just 90 days they would reach day zero
the day where all commercial water would
be cut off except for essential
consumers such as hospitals this extreme
water shortage is a result of a three
year drought households were also asked
to limit their water consumption to just
23 gallons per person per house per day
everyone is asked to limit their showers
to two minutes restaurants use
disposable dishes baths are highly
discouraged and bath plugs have been
removed from all hotels children bathe
in buckets outside and the leftover
water is used for Gardens pasta and
other dishes that have been eliminated
because they used too much water and car
washing is a thing of the past
fortunately Cape Town did experience
significant rainfall that pushed off day
zero but Cape Town residents are still
following these strict conservation
methods number seven more than 60,000
people were forced out of a neighborhood
due to apartheid in 1948 the National
Party was elected to lead South Africa
with a focus on racial segregation also
known as apartheid they created fear in
people and tried to make white South
Africans feel threatened by black South
Africans this resulted in multiracial
neighborhoods being forcibly segregated
perhaps the worst example of this was
the Cape Town neighborhood of district 6
in 1965 district 6 was declared to be a
slum because of the number of black
people living there all of the houses
were destroyed and 60,000 people are
forced to leave the area many of the
people who live there believe that the
city really took the land because of its
prime location next to Table Mountain
and the city centre number eight Nelson
Mandela was imprisoned in Cape Town for
24 years Nelson Mandela was imprisoned a
total of 27 years and for 18 of those
years he was held captive on Robben
Island off the coast of Cape Town from
1964 to 1982 Mandela was held in an 8
foot by 7 foot cell with only straw mats
to sleep on he spent his days spray
rocks into gravel and doing hard labor
in the lime quarry which permanently
damaged his eyesight he was allowed one
visitor and one letter every six months
in 1982 he was transferred to another
Cape Town prison where he was kept until
1988 he was finally released in 1990 and
became the president of South Africa in
1994 number nine a cannon has been fired
off daily in the city since 1806
one of the longest-lasting traditions of
Cape Town is the noon gun nearly every
day at noon a cannon is fired off from
the top of Signal Hill the only
exceptions are Sundays and public
holidays the cannon was originally used
to signal that ships were coming into
the harbour so that traders could bring
their wares down to the harbour for sale
the tradition has continued since 1806
and there's also a backup cannon in case
the first cannon fails but that's only
happened one time in the last 210 years
number 10 the most expensive home in
Cape Town costs 34 million dollars the
most expensive home in Cape Town and
actually all of South Africa is called
Casa Blanca it's located in the camps
bay neighborhood of Cape Town and was
put on the market back in 2015 for 34
million dollars it cost more than all of
the other homes for sale in the
neighbourhood combined at the time Casa
Blanca has 8 bedrooms 13 bathrooms
reception rooms that can hold up to
1,000 guests a pool ocean views and an
18 seat movie theater the home also
comes with a 14 car garage with
chandeliers hanging from the ceiling
although it's very expensive for the
area it doesn't come close to being
included in the top 10 most expensive
houses in the world you can check out
those by clicking in the top right
corner number 11 it has the oldest wine
industry outside of Europe the first
settlers at Cape Town were tasked with
planting vineyards so the wine and
grapes could be produced for sailors to
prevent scurvy over the years the wine
industry has grown and developed into
one of the most well known in the world
as it began back in 1652 it's also the
oldest and longest lasting wine industry
outside of the European continent
number twelve there's a constellation
named after its most recognizable
landmark Table Mountain has been cape
town's most prominent landmark since it
was discovered Table Mountain stands one
thousand meters above the city and it's
been listed as one of the new seven
wonders of nature based on hundreds of
millions of votes French astronomer
Nicolaus Louis de la calle named a
constellation that he discovered while
he was staying in Cape Town after the
city the constellation is officially
called Mensa which is the Latin word for
table it's the only constellation named
after a landmark and it's one of the
faintest and most southern
constellations in the sky number 13
Africa's only species of penguins lives
in Cape Town the African penguin is one
of the unique species that's found in
Cape Town they are only found on the
southwestern coast of Africa it's the
only penguin species that's native to
Africa and they mostly live on 24
islands off the coast but there are two
colonies that have been established on
the mainland of Cape Town there's only
one other mainland colony of these
species in Namibia the African penguins
are more commonly known as jackass
penguins they were given this nickname
because they make loud donkey-like
sounds they're an endangered species as
well and their population has gone from
4 million in the late 1800s to 55,000 in
2010 if nothing changes they could be
extinct as soon as 2026 number 14 the
castle of Good Hope was built as a fort
back in 1670 for the castle of good hope
also known as Cape Town castle was built
between 1666 and 1679 by the Dutch East
India Trading Company after there were
rumors of war with the British it was
called a castle because in addition to
being a fort it held a community with a
church a bakery residences and offices
the castle is now a tourist attraction
with a museum and a permanent ceramic
exhibition it's also the oldest
surviving building in South Africa
number 15 the first heart transplant was
performed in Cape Town
the first ever heart transplant was
performed in Cape Town by dr. Chris
Barnard in December 1967 his patient
went into heart failure and dr. Barnard
performed a revolutionary procedure with
the help of 30 other doctors his patient
lived for 18 days with a new heart
before dying of pneumonia he performed
more than 10 heart transplants in his
career and he became internationally
famous but there was another important
medical advancement made by a Cape Town
native Allen Cormac grew up in Cape Town
and later moved to the United States he
developed the first cat scan and won the
1979 Nobel Prize in Physiology or
medicine and there you have it Alexis
some interesting lesser-known facts
about Cape Town now that you've learned
some more about this great city we'd
like to know have you ever been to Cape
Town or would you like to visit let us
know in the comments and as always for
sticking with us until the end for being
a true a lexer you get a bonus fact here
it is number 16 7,000 plants found in
Cape Town aren't found anywhere else in
the world Cape Town is rich in flora and
fauna the Cape floral Kingdom located on
the southern tip of Cape Town is
particularly known for its biodiversity
it holds about 3% of the Earth's plant
species over an area of 90,000 square
kilometers 7,000 plants that are found
in the floral Kingdom are unique to the
area and are not found anywhere else in
the world thank you for spending some
time with us a Luxor's make sure to LIKE
and subscribe so you never miss another
video
we also hand-picked these videos which
we recommend you watch next thank you
for being an a lexer and we'll see you
back tomorrow